At this stage, you
have everything
you need to train
the reward model.
While it has taken
a fair amount of
human effort to
get to this point,
by the time you're done
training the reward model,
you won't need to include
any more humans in the loop.
Instead, the reward model will
effectively take place
off the human labeler
and automatically choose
the preferred completion
during the oral HF process.
This reward model is usually
also a language model.
For example, a bird
that is trained
using supervised
learning methods on
the pairwise comparison
data that you
prepared from the human labelers
assessment off the prompts.
For a given prompt X,
the reward model
learns to favor the
human-preferred completion y_ j,
while minimizing the lock
sigmoid off the reward
difference, r_j-r_k.
As you saw on the last slide,
the human-preferred option is
always the first
one labeled y_j.
Once the model has
been trained on
the human rank
prompt-completion pairs,
you can use the reward model
as a binary classifier
to provide a set
of logics across
the positive and
negative classes.
Logics are the
unnormalized model outputs
before applying any
activation function.
Let's say you want to
detoxify your LLM,
and the reward model needs to
identify if the completion
contains hate speech.
In this case, the two
classes would be notate,
the positive class that you
ultimately want to optimize
for and hate the negative
class you want to avoid.
The largest value of the
positive class is what you
use as the reward value in LLHF.
Just to remind you, if you apply
a Softmax function
to the logits,
you will get the probabilities.
The example here shows
a good reward for
non-toxic completion
and the second example
shows a bad reward being
given for toxic completion.
I know this lesson has
covered a lot so far.
But at this point, you
have a powerful tool
in this reward model
for aligning your LLM.
The next step is to explore
how the reward
model gets used in
the reinforcement
learning process
to train your human-aligned LLM.
Join me in the next video
to see how this works.